---
layout: post
title:  "Active Directory Global Catalog"
summary: |-
            In a nutshell Active Directory Global Catalog stores everything about all objects inside the forest from a DC, so a user or an application can search information about said data without anything specific on which DC stores it inside AD DS (Active Directory Doimain Services); global catalog stores a full writable replica of a schema and also a fully writable directory partition for a domain that it would be hosting. Also keep in mind that global catalog server would store a read-only replica of every other domain inside the forest.
date:   2021-1-27 7:53
categories: Compute
description: "Active Directory Global Catalog"
#image: 'https://www.csrhymes.com//img/static-site-generator.jpg'
published: true
#canonical_url: https://www.csrhymes.com/development/2018/05/28/why-use-a-static-site-generator.html
---
<h1>Global Catalog</h1>
<h4>What is it and what it does</h4>
<p>In a nutshell Active Directory Global Catalog stores everything about all objects inside the forest from a DC, so a user or an application can search information about said data without anything specific on which DC stores it inside AD DS (Active Directory Doimain Services);
<br>global catalog stores a full writable replica of a schema and also a fully writable directory partition for a domain that it would be hosting.
<br>Also keep in mind that global catalog server would store a read-only replica of every other domain inside the forest.</p>
<p>By default global catalog is enabled if you are starting a new forest So instead
<br>I'll show you how I managed to create another catalog from instructions I made with my externship.</p>
<p>AD Global Catalog as stated before is a central storage technology for all the information of a forest inside
active directory, The Domain Controller is for hosting the Global Catalog server; this server
stores a full copy of objects inside the directory for it's host domain and a partial copy of objects
for all other domains inside the forest. The Global Catalog also helps Active directory with
indexing objects.
Active Directory Global has other functions such as:
Login validation of universal groups
User Principal Name Login Validation through the DC
Indexing capabilities for every object inside the forest (Ou's and such)
Basically the global catalog is like a directory which stores info for indexing (Think
Google).
To add the catalog, you'd first have to have a DC (Domain Controller)
The Domain Controller is basically the head of the active directory in that it's responsible for
roles and features, security, account information for a domain.
A domain Forest in active directory is a collection of just more than one domain (DC) having a
different name or it's roots.
Here are the chapters to start:
</p>

<h4>I. The Setup</h4>
<p><b>It's usually recommended to run a windows server under a virtual machine or
hyper-visor to avoid catastrophic errors, there are a whole host of virtual solutions out
there such as VMware, VMware EXSi, Oracle, Proxmox, virt-manager Etc. Really up to
you on how to configure it as this is just a walk though/study</b></p>
<p>
Add a DC (Domain Controller) inside your Domain; for that you'll need windows server (either
2016 or 2019); when you install the OS it will ask for what version of Windows Server you'd like
to use go with Desktop Experience or Standard depending on your company size, when
installed it will ask for you to set a password, for the example here I've set mine to
"Password01" but you can set it to whichever.
When finished check for updates on the server usually found in last installed updates (I've
skipped so this can be optional if you just want to look), when finished you may need to restart;
before/if you do that set the hostname (computername) to let's say "ComputerDC" or anything
ending with "DC" in it, usually the hostname in Server Manager (The program the usually starts
up when the server starts) is "WIN-SOMETHING" of the sort (Usually weird numbers and stuff).
</p>
<p>
next you'll need to install an Active Directory Domain Services Role inside the first DC.
For the first DC you'll need to set up the IP address of the DC
to do that you'll need to go to settings > network and Internet > change adapter properties >
Ipv4 addressing.
From there you should change the IP address to whatever
such as 192.168.0.1 which will be the static IP for the DC
and the subnet to 255.255.255.0 (/24)
keep the default gateway emptied
primary DNS should be the static ip setup later which is 192.168.0.2.
secondary DNS should be 127.0.0.1
Basically the same will apply to DC2 for communications.
</p>
<h4>II. Setting up ADDS:</h4>
<b>Hopefully you've set the computer name, so now we can continue.</b>
<p>To set up Active Directory Domain Services, click manage then add roles and features and
select role based.<ul>
<li>Select the server you'd add a feature to; which is the Domain Controller.</li>
<li>Click active Directory Domain Services > Just keep clicking next and install.</li>
</ul>
<b>Note about DNS options; if you have more than two DNS servers in two Domain Controller's
then you should be fine on fault tolerance.</b>
<p>
When installed it should notify you that the installation should be complete and there should be
a flag with an exclamation mark in the server manager.
When you click that flag you'll notice that the server needs to be promoted to a Domain
Controller (Domain Controller); when you do that, create a new forest and call it
"WindowsDC.local".
Click next and set the password to "Password01" or something that you'll remember.
Notice that the global catalog in the setup is grayed out along with the DNS delegation on the
next, that's most likely because it's the only Domain Controller in the forest and is already set as
a catalog; we'll add more later.
Just click next.
The main Domain Controller will boot and by default it will be the global catalog, as stated
earlier a global catalog is basically an index; it can
also replicate another Domain Controller to be in sync with each other.
Also adding the new domain you could add a child domain to the existing top level or second
level domains to the existing domain; the domain name can be entirely different (let's say
NewYork, no spaces) and then you have a child domain of newyork.WindowsDC.local.</p>

Rename your site after you've installed:

<ul>
  <li>Server manager >> tools</li>
   <li>Windows Active Directory Sites and Services</li>
   <li>Expand the Sites branch.</li>
</ul>

<p>
Right-click the site you want to rename (i.e., Default-First-Site-Name), and select Rename.
Feel free to rename this and the other site to a different site name.
*Not doing so would and then doing it later would probably mean you would have to
revert back to a snapshot for next Domain Controller or a powershell cmdlet
remove-windowsfeature AD-Domain-Services*
Join the newly made Server, make it a Domain Controller (Hopefully you didn't clone the initial
Server install otherwise errors will occur) into WindowsDC.local or whichever domain name you
made for that initial (Domain:)
Same with the account/password (Credentials:).
The DSRM password can be whichever you'd like I've set password01 for both.
If you want to replicate from any domain leave as is or select the specific domain you'd wish to
replicate in additional options.
When you deploy that Domain Controller you should be able to check global catalog options as
that Domain Controller will exist with an already existing Domain Controller inside the domain.
If it throws an error on contacting the Domain Controller just restart the process on the second
Domain Controller, don't revert to snapshots; just cancel the install and start over or
troubleshoot.
</p>
<h4>Now you should have an active directory catalog with another Domain Controller.</h4>
<h4>To view the catalog go to:</h4>
<ul>
  <li>Server manager >> tools</li>
  <li>Windows Active Directory Sites and Services</li>
  <li>Site</li>
  <li>yoursitename</li>
  <li>Servers</li>
  <li>Server name </li>
  <li>NTDS Settings hit properties and click Global catalog.</li>
</ul>
<p>
When done You should be able to check and see if the Domain in in sync with the other with the
following Powershell commandlet
</p>
<ul>
  <li>'repadmin /replsum' for a summery</li>
  <li>'repadmin /syncall' to sync all the servers in a Active Directory</li>
</ul>
<p>you can also run repadmin in power shell to view additional commands for it, it should be successful with</p>
<ul>
<li>/showrepl</li>
</ul>
<p>And it should execute with no errors.</p>
<p>
Back to Windows Active Directory Sites and Services on main Domain Controller, replicate the
server on the main DC:
<ul>
  <li>expand Site</li>
  <li>expand yoursitename</li>
  <li>expand servers</li>
  <li>expand to where you're replicating from and replicate now (right click "replicate now")</li>
</ul>

<b>Example: Sites > MainDC > Servers > WINDC2<b>
  By default AD Global Catalog replicates by itself but this is just to show you how to if you'll need it.
<br>
<br>
<br>
<p>
  Sources Sited
  </p>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/identity/ad-ds/manage/ad-forest-recovery-add-gc">
      Microsoft. (2018b, August 9). AD Forest Recovery - Adding the GC. Retrieved from
      https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/identity/ad-ds/manage/ad-forest-recovery-add-gc</a>
    </li>
<li>
  <a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/identity/ad-ds/get-started/virtual-dc/active-directory-domain-services-overview">
Microsoft. (2017, May 31). Active Directory Domain Services Overview. Retrieved from
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/identity/ad-ds/get-started/virtual-dc/active-directory-domain-services-overview</a>
</li>
<li>
  <a href="https://www.manageengine.com/products/active-directory-audit/kb/how-to/how-to-check-if-domain-controllers-are-in-sync-with-each-other.html">
Real-time, web based Active Directory Change Auditing and Reporting Solution by. (2020,
November 11). Retrieved from
https://www.manageengine.com/products/active-directory-audit/kb/how-to/how-to-check-if-doma
in-controllers-are-in-sync-with-each-other.html
</a>
</li>
<li>
  <a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/identity/ad-ds/plan/dns-and-ad-ds">
Microsoft. (2018a, August 8). DNS and AD DS. Retrieved from
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/identity/ad-ds/plan/dns-and-ad-ds
</a>
</li>
<li><a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/windows-server/identity/replication-error-5">
Microsoft. (2020, September 8). AD replication error 5 - Windows Server. Retrieved from
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/windows-server/identity/replication-error-5</a></li>
<li>
Tomsho, G. (2019). MCSA Guide to Identity with Windows Server 2016, Exam 70-742 (1st ed.).
Boston, MA: Cengage Learning.
</li>
  </ul>
